July17/2016: For NVIDIA through Aricent: Kiran kumar bobbu(Aricent)

which drivers you worked on?? Have you worked on USB?

EEPROM-driver:
How do you read 10 bytes from EPROM? what is the use case of EPROM driver written?

what is done in your device open ?
what is device Initialisation . how you did it for EEPROM?
What is pinmuxing? what is pinconfiguration? how you did it?

If you wrote 10 bytes into UART buffer.and about to Enable the TX-Interrupt.but there is 
context switch suddenly. How do you manage the situation??


what are memory barriers?
What is out of order Execution?


How do you write PS command of Linux? 
Iterate through task_struct list and display the state of process
From where do you get the task_struct list ?? 
what do you pass to / how do you ask to get state of processes??

Insert a node in tree.
delete a node from tree.
program to check a flag and update the satus to user?

From where do you get the syscall number in system-call?

what happens during  context switch from user space to kernel ??

usrspace stack vs kernel space stack?

what is copy_to_user and copy_from-user? how they help in security??
you should know : page-tables,security in linux,user space and kernel space linux,

Feedback given by interviewer:
If you have Enough Knowledge , then Even if you don't have Project Experience: you will be hired.
you are going 2 steps in , but not the further 3 steps where you will touch bottom.
get Indepth Knowledge? dont do trial and Error? Analyse Each step why you are doing.
If you come 2 days befor i could have hired you,...those positions are filled .
now we need person very thourogh and well experienced.

Self Asseesment :
 not going In depth - not understanding thoroughly Each step.
 not Adventerous Enough to Experimentation : Learning new concepts, new subsystems,new devices 
 not doing work thouroughly and slowly: need more concentration
 not having self confidence: believe that you can get job, If you do the work thoroughly,Even if it is very small.
Interview-Asseesment:
- not presented the work done ..very well infront of interviwer
- no indepth knowledge about Each concept touched.


Assesment about Interviewer:
- initially doubtful about me wether i have worked on drivers?
- slowly gained belief on me.
- knowledge wise good but not the best,good in nature,no arrogance.
- felt ok about me , but not impressed Enough to hire me 
-this Intervie may be First round , If Qualified there may be client Interview : Nvidea












