BIOS process:
------------------------------------
internal power supply turns on, initializes and then takes a few moments to generate reliable power supply
motherboard's chipset will generate a reset signal to the processor.
After a Power Good signal is received, or after the reset button is released and there is confirmation of reliable power, the processor will be ready to start executing. 

the processor to always look at the same place in the system, the BIOS ROM, for the small bit of startup code to begin the boot process.
This is typically located at memory location FFFF0h, or right at the end of the system memory.
Since there are only 16 bytes from there to the end of conventional memory area, this location contains just a "jump" instruction telling the processor where to go to find the real BIOS startup program.

POST:
The BIOS performs the power-on self test (POST).
If there are any fatal errors, the boot process stops. 
If the POST is successful, the BIOS calls INT 19 (Interrupt 19) and then proceeds to look for devices attached to the motherboard.

INT19 process:
The BIOS code begins its search by looking for a video card, 
more particularly, its looking for the video card's built in BIOS program, (normally found at location C000h in memory) 
and if found, runs it. The system BIOS executes the video card BIOS, which in turn initializes the video card.
Most modern video cards will display information on the screen about the video card, before you see the messages from the system BIOS itself.

Once video has been enabled, the BIOS begins searching for other devices that may have their own ROM and whether that ROM has its own BIOS code.
If a floppy and/or hard drive is found, their codes are executed. If, during this INT 19 process, any other device BIOS's are found, they are executed as well.

The BIOS displays its startup screen.
the BIOS continues to perform additional tests:memory count.
it performs somewhat of an inventory of the hardware.
the BIOS will display a summary screen with your system's configuration.

depending on the boot sequence selected,Once the BIOS identifies its target boot drive, 
the it looks for boot information to start the operating system boot process. 
If it is searching a hard disk, it looks for a master boot record at cylinder 0, head 0, sector 1, the first sector on the disk
Next, the small program in the Master Boot Record will attempt to locate an active (bootable) partition in the hard drives partition table.
If such a partition is found, the boot sector of that partition is also read into memory at location 0000:7C00 
and then MBR program itself jumps to memory location 0000:7C00. 
Keep in mind that each operating system has its own boot sector format. 

the small program in the boot sector locating the first part of the operating system's kernel loader program
or in some cases the kernel itself or perhaps a boot manager program, and read then that into memory. 
For you Windows NT and Windows 2000 :this kernel loader is referred to as NTLDR.

If no boot device of any type can be found, the system will display an error message and stop
error message can range from "No boot device" to the very cryptic "NO ROM BASIC - SYSTEM HALTED".
This will also happen if you have a bootable hard disk partition but forget to set it active.

This entire process is referred to as a "cold boot" (since the machine was off, or cold, when it started). 
A "warm boot" also known as a "soft boot" is the same thing except it occurs when the machine is rebooted using the Ctrl + Alt + Del keys.
In this case the POST is skipped and the boot process continues to INT 19 .
On most systems, Ctrl + Alt + Del causes a soft-boot.





Kernel boot process
------------------------
BIOS prom chip  on motherboard: has small code :system BIOS
BIOS ROM finds out MBR of Harddisk
boot code in MBR invokes GRUB.
GRUB loads linux vmlinuz-x.x.x-x-name in /boot
kernel need a filesystem containing drivers available to it at boot time:"initrd" (initial RAM disk) or "initramfs" 
/boot/initrd.img-x.x.x.x-name is initrd
GRUB will load the kernel at a location in memory, and the initrd at a different location, 
and jump to the kernel telling it where the initrd is, starting Linux.


MBR(Master boot record)/Master boot sector/boot sector:
--------------------------------------------------------
is always located at cylinder 0, head 0, and sector 1, the first sector on the disk.

The master boot record contains the following structures:

Master Partition Table: 
This small bit of code/table: describing partitions on the hard disk. 
When the developers designed the size of this master partition table, they left just enough room for the description of four partitions.
hence the four partition (physical partitions/primary partitions.) limit.
Any additional partitions must be logical partitions that are linked to (or are part of) one of the primary partitions.
One of these primary partitions is marked as active, indicating that it is the one that the computer should used to continue the boot process.

Master Boot Code: 
The master boot record is the small bit of computer code that the BIOS loads and executes to start the boot process. 
This code transfers control to the boot program stored on the boot (active) partition to load the operating system.





download a more recent kernel from kernel.org 
create a new kernel binary image
make or update an initrd with drivers that work with that kernel
